John Morrison - Senior Capstone Reflection Paper 

This is my repository for my final in my capstone course. In my repository, I've linked my St. Paul Crime API web page project, my database microbialite project, and my personal web page project. 
I chose these because I thought these projects really fell in line with St. Thomas's mission, goals, and values. As a computer scientist, finding projects that go hand 
in hand with the common good can seem challenging, but after further thought and choosing between projects, I've come to the conclusion that these three are best suited for the prompt,
and what St. Thomas's goal is.
For starters, my webdev-rest repository is home to my St. Paul Crime API web page project, and I see it as my crown jewel when talking about a domain-specific project in my work. I think this is a great example of this because it shows how I got to learn how to apply my major course work into helping reach an audience and educate them on a topic in my own community. The project takes a map of St. Paul, and splits it into each neighborhood (out of 17), and maps how many crimes, what types of crimes, and the location of the crimes in the area. Apart from learning how to code this project, it was interesting not only as a student, but as a person to dive deeper into my community and use my work for the better - educating myself and others of the challenges faced in our own community today. It was sweet getting to apply my work like this because I felt like I was not only getting better at coding, but also learning to use that skill for the common good; If I can use it like this now, who knows what work lies ahead in the future for my community or goals? All in all, learning about REST APIs was extremely fun and interesting as a programmer in training (student), but creating a project that wasn’t for fun/no-meaning (such as creating an API for movie characters) and actually using what we learned and to apply it the real world was something I feel like really widens the project to a domain specific view.
My other project was my microbialite database project, which was a website that executes queries from a UST geology professor’s database. I think this fits in St. Thomas’s mission for the common good because I completed the project for the sake of helping a professor out and really wanted nothing in return from him. I found it nice again to use what I’ve learned to apply it to the real world and help someone out. The project is simply a webpage with a couple links to pages based on what table you’re querying in the database (ex: employees, rock data, complaint logs). Again, I think this was a fun project to complete to hone in on not only my programming, but also help out others in my community.
My last project I wanted to include was my personal web page I created in my web development course. I think this page itself helped me explore coding for myself and express my interests, who I am, and what I want to do with my degree. I think this fits in line again with St. Thomas’s mission statement because in a way it’s helping me be a better person by expressing my goals and interests, making myself more comfortable with my coding while also sharing about myself, and thus helps myself become a better person by acting wisely and thinking critically as I detail a personal page. With that said, sharing the project in class as part of the assignment really helped out as well as I got to stand in front of my peers and present my work, again something I’ll have to do in the real world, hence preparing me for larger presentations of work in the future.
Overall, I think these three projects really helped me get ready for the real world by using what I learned in school for the better of my community. I got to help others, express myself, and educate peers on what is happening in our community all while working towards bettering myself in coding and earning my degree. All in all, I think these projects definitely helped myself in working towards the common good in many aspects, and I know I am now a better student and person after completing them. 

